------------------------
KNITRO 8.0 Release Notes
------------------------

What's new in KNITRO 8.0?
-------------------------

1)  KNITRO 8.0 introduces a presolver that provides basic 
    preprocessing operations on the user model to simplify and 
    reduce the size of the model.  The presolver tightens variable 
    and bounds where appropriate and removes variables and 
    constraints when they become unnecessary or fixed.  The 
    presolver is on by default but can be turned off by setting the 
    new user option "presolve=0". Removal of variables or 
    constraints is sometimes based on a tolerance threshold value. 
    A new user option "presolve_tol" controls this tolerance.

2)  KNITRO 8.0 provides the ability to compute finite-difference 
    gradients in parallel on shared memory 64-bit architectures 
    with multiple cores or processors.  The new user option 
    "par_numthreads" can be used to set the number of threads to use. 
    This feature is only available when using KNITRO in "callback" 
    mode.

3)  KNITRO 8.0 provides the ability to perform the multistart 
    procedure in parallel on shared memory 64-bit architectures 
    with multiple cores or processors.  The new user option 
    "par_numthreads" can be used to set the number of threads to use.  
    The new user option "ms_outsub" controls whether or not output 
    from individual solves are printed to files when using parallel 
    multistart. This feature is only available when using KNITRO in 
    "callback" mode.

4)  KNITRO 8.0 provides the ability to run multiple algorithms (i.e. 
    both barrier/interior-point and active-set) on a given model by 
    setting the existing user option "algorithm=multi".  This can be 
    done both sequentially and in parallel on shared memory 64-bit 
    architectures with multiple cores or processors. The new user 
    option "par_numthreads" can be used to set the number of threads 
    to use. The new user option "ma_terminate" determines how to 
    terminate the multi-algorithm feature.  It can be terminated at 
    the first feasible solution, the first optimal solution, or after 
    all algorithms have run to completion.  The new options 
    "ma_maxtime_cpu" and "ma_maxtime_real" can be used to set time 
    limits for the multi-algorithm procedure. The new user option 
    "ma_outsub" controls whether or not output from individual solves 
    are printed to files when using multiple algorithms. This feature 
    is only available when using KNITRO in "callback" mode.

5)  KNITRO 8.0 implements a new fast infeasibility detection mechanism 
    for the barrier/interior-point solvers.  In addition to identifying 
    infeasible models more quickly, it also helps the algorithm achieve 
    feasibility more quickly on problems with difficult constraints. 
    This new feature is enabled by default, but can be turned off by 
    setting the new user option "bar_switchrule=0".

6)  As part of the new infeasibility detection mechanism procedure, 
    KNITRO 8.0 may wish, at certain iterations, to have an evaluation 
    of the Hessian matrix without the objective component included 
    when the user is providing exact Hessians.  By default, KNITRO 8.0 
    will approximate this modified Hessian matrix when needed.  
    However, if the user is able to provide the Hessian matrix without 
    the objective component when requested by KNITRO, this may be done 
    by setting the user option "hessian_no_f=1".  Setting 
    "hessian_no_f=1" (and providing the modified Hessian when requested 
    by KNITRO) could improve the efficiency of the KNITRO solver when 
    the user is providing the Hessian matrix.

7)  KNITRO 8.0 includes various multistart enhancements.  A new 
    user option "ms_seed" was added that can be used to specify a 
    seed to initialize the multistart random number generator.
    Two new user defined callback functions for multistart were added: 
    1) "KTR_set_ms_process_callback()" allows users to perform some 
       task after each multistart solve; 
    2) "KTR_set_ms_initpt_callback()" allows users to overwrite 
       KNITRO's randomly generated multistart point with their
       own start points. 

8)  KNITRO 8.0 includes several mixed-integer enhancements. 
    KNITRO 8.0 offers significant speedups on mixed-integer 
    nonlinear programs (MINLP), compared to previous versions of 
    KNITRO. KNITRO 8.0 offers a new user-defined callback function 
    "KTR_set_mip_node_callback()" for mixed-integer programming, 
    that allows users to perform some task after each node solve in 
    the branch-and-bound tree.

9)  KNITRO 8.0 offers the following new functions for retrieving 
    solution information: "KTR_get_number_cg_iters()", 
    "KTR_get_constraint_values()", and "KTR_get_solution()".

10) When using the AMPL interface, KNITRO 8.0 allows complementarity 
    constraints to be provided in any form accepted by AMPL.

11) The user option "maxcrossit" was renamed "bar_maxcrossit" to 
    indicate that it is only used with the barrier/interior-point 
    KNITRO algorithms.

12) KNITRO 8.0 changed to static linking of IntelMKL libraries.

13) KNITRO 8.0 offers general improvements in speed and 
    robustness, particularly for the barrier/interior-point algorithms.


Bug Fixes in KNITRO 8.0
-----------------------

- KNITRO 8.0 fixes a bug in previous versions of KNITRO that could cause
  a memory access violation or incorrect Hessian values when using the 
  interior/point algorithms to solve problems with complementarity 
  constraints and providing the exact Hessian (i.e. "hessopt=1").

- Fixed bug that could cause KNITRO to incorrectly start in "feasible 
  mode" when "honorbnds=0" and "bar_feasible=1".

- Fix a bug that could cause undefined step values when computing a 
  direct step on linear programs with the QR linear solver (i.e. 
  "linsolver=qr"). Added some additional safeguards to prevent KNITRO 
  from internally generating an undefined solution estimate "x" during 
  the optimization process.

- Fix small memory leak that occurred when dynamically loading the 
  IntelMKL BLAS libraries (i.e. "blasoption=1").


How to make KNITRO 8.0 perform like KNITRO 7.0
----------------------------------------------

KNITRO 8.0 can be made to behave more similarly to KNITRO 7.0 by setting 
the following non-default options in KNITRO 8.0: "presolve=0", 
"bar_switchrule=0".

See the KNITRO 8.0 User's Manual for more information on the new 
features and user options.  The full history of KNITRO releases is 
available at:
  http://www.ziena.com/release_hist.htm.
